# Scanning Registries

This guide explains how to configure and run scans on container registries using SBOMscanner.

It covers:

- Defining a `Registry` custom resource
- Running on-demand scans with a `ScanJob`
- Configuring scheduled scans
- Configuring registry without catalog
- Filtering by platforms
- Monitoring scan progress and results
- Stopping scans and cleaning up resources
- Remove a Registry

## 1. Define a Registry

Before scanning a registry, create a `Registry` custom resource that specifies the registry endpoint and repositories to scan.

Example manifest:

```yaml
apiVersion: sbomscanner.kubewarden.io/v1alpha1
kind: Registry
metadata:
  name: my-registry
  namespace: default
spec:
  uri: ghcr.io
  scanInterval: 1h
  repositories:
    - kubewarden/sbomscanner/test-assets/golang
```

This configuration:

- Targets the `ghcr.io` registry
- Scans the `kubewarden/sbomscanner/test-assets/golang` repository
- Runs a new scan every hour

Apply the resource:

```bash
kubectl apply -f registry.yaml
```

For private registries, see the [Private Registries guide](./private-registries.md).

## 2. Run a Scan on Demand

To run a one-time scan, omit the `scanInterval` in the `Registry` resource and create a `ScanJob` that references it.

Example `Registry` without scheduling:

```yaml
apiVersion: sbomscanner.kubewarden.io/v1alpha1
kind: Registry
metadata:
  name: my-registry
  namespace: default
spec:
  uri: ghcr.io
  repositories:
    - kubewarden/sbomscanner/test-assets/golang
```

Example `ScanJob` manifest:

```yaml
apiVersion: sbomscanner.kubewarden.io/v1alpha1
kind: ScanJob
metadata:
  name: my-scanjob
  namespace: default
spec:
  registry: my-registry
```

Apply the job:

```bash
kubectl apply -f scanjob.yaml
```

> **Note**: The `ScanJob` must be created in the same namespace as its referenced `Registry`.

## 3. Configuring registry without catalog

In some cases, you may work with registries that do not implement/exposes the `_catalog` endpoint (such as **Docker Hub**, **Amazon ECR**, or **ghcr.io**).

To make SBOMscanner work with these registries, you can manually specify the repositories you want to scan, instead of pulling the catalog.

> **Note**: When using `catalogType` as `NoCatalog`, you must explicitly provide the list of `repositories` to scan.

Example `Registry` without catalog:

```yaml
apiVersion: sbomscanner.kubewarden.io/v1alpha1
kind: Registry
metadata:
  name: my-registry
  namespace: default
spec:
  uri: ghcr.io
  catalogType: NoCatalog
  repositories:
    - kubewarden/sbomscanner/test-assets/golang
```

Here's a list of registries that do NOT support `_catalog` (or intentionally disable it):

* Amazon ECR

* Google Container Registry (GCR)

* GitHub Container Registry (GHCR)

## 4. Filtering By Platforms

In most cases you don't want to scan all the platforms of the same image version. For this reason we created a filter mechanism to avoid unuseful scans and waste of time.

To lighten the workload of SBOMscanner, you can specify which platforms you want to scan, instead of discovering them and consequently scan.

Here's an example of how to configure the registry to look only at the `linux/amd64` platform.

```yaml
apiVersion: sbomscanner.kubewarden.io/v1alpha1
kind: Registry
metadata:
  name: my-first-registry
  namespace: default
spec:
  uri: dev-registry.default.svc.cluster.local:5000
  platforms:
    - arch: "amd64"
      os: "linux"
```

To configure multiple platforms, you can list them this way:

```yaml
...
spec:
  uri: dev-registry.default.svc.cluster.local:5000
  platforms:
    - arch: "amd64"
      os: "linux"
    - arch: "386"
      os: "linux"
    - arch: "arm64"
      os: "linux"
      variant: "v7"
```

## 5. Monitor Scan Progress

Check the status of a scan:

```bash
kubectl get scanjob my-scanjob -n default -o yaml
```

Example status:

```yaml
status:
  imagesCount: 10
  conditions:
    - type: Complete
      status: "True"
      reason: "AllImagesScanned"
      message: "Scan completed successfully"
```

## 6. View Results

Reports generated by scans include images, SBOMs, and vulnerability findings.
See the [Querying Reports guide](./querying-reports.md) for details.

## 7. Stop an Ongoing Scan

To cancel a running scan, delete its `ScanJob`:

```bash
kubectl delete scanjob my-scanjob -n default
```

## 8. Remove a Registry

To delete a registry and its associated data:

```bash
kubectl delete registry my-registry -n default
```

This action removes:

- The registry definition
- All related images, SBOMs, and vulnerability reports
- Any `ScanJob` resources referencing the registry

If a scan is in progress, it will be terminated.
